---
layout: post
title:  "Reading List 2024"
date:   2024-11-15 12:22:22 +1000
categories: reading
---
*Killing Thatcher* - *Rory Carroll*
	Pretty good. Distressing depictions of people caught in IRA bombings. Not as powerful as *Say Nothing* but fills in some parts of the story for me. 

*Hyperion* - *Dan Simmons*
	As brilliant and evocative as I remember, six self contained stories any one of which are worth another novel. Descriptions of worlds that feel like they barely plumb the depths of a new world that my brain loves. The ending is less satisfying than I remember, for some reason I remember an audience with the shrike and timetombs just as powerful as the rest of the book, but instead they walk into the sunset. 

*A Savage War of Peace* - *Alistair Horne*
	So interesting. Find other histories written like this, read his other books. The world is so complex and there are so many things I don't know. Need to be more voracious and continue fitting together this web of history and politics that is nascent in my head. I'm going to write about this, about political violence, what problems does it solve, what problems does it face, how is it different/the same now. It's very dark but I am fascinated by the indiscriminate, promiscuous violence that characterises conflicts like this, the pure horror, how does it get there? This book is a very good examination of that if I can understand it. 

*Cryptonomicon* - *Neal Stephenson*
	Absolutely brilliant, so well put together and exciting. So much interesting WW2 stuff, cryptography, the Philippines. Read the appendix and encode some stuff with the Solitaire method, understand it. Look at some stuff with one time pads etc then look at modern cryptography schemes, write the code for them. Love it. Maybe try again with *Quicksilver*, because the historical bent in cryptonomicon is one of the most interesting parts. 

*Sebastopol Sketches* - *Leo Tolstoy*
	Lovely and humane, I see why people like this guy. Read more Tolstoy. Incredible that things written so long ago can have be felt and understood so well by us today. Think about future people and past people equally, see further and do good work in your life. 

*Diaspora* - *Greg Egan*
	Very interesting. A lot to be said about what desires and drives can be sustained in when you can modify yourself and your society, what goals are inherent or eternal. Interesting stuff about physics and higher dimensional stuff that broke my brain thinking about it. A bit too much exposition on the physics but I guess some people like that, I skipped a bunch. 

*Less Than Zero* - *Bret Easton Ellis*
	Terrifying and horrible. The feelings it evokes of unfeelingness and windswept dunes really put me in places in my mind I've been before. Don't recommend to people because of violence, abuse, but it's one of my favourites.

*Brave New War* - *John Robb*
	Some interesting ideas, given it was written in 2007 these definitely seem obvious now but were prescient then. Write something about this, the changing advantage towards small decentralised groups, the impact of global communications and platforms, drones. 

*Sitt Marie Rose* - *Etel Adnan*
	Absolutely brilliant, poetry that puts you right in the Lebanese civil war and opens your eyes to the suffering of a people. Reread and make notes from it. 

*Near to the Wild Heart* - *Clarice Lispector*
	Delectable and a pleasure to read. Living as intense sensory and ineffable experience, the throbbing heart of life. 

*The Colossus of Maroussi* - *Henry Miller*
	Incredible that I didn't finish it in Greece last year. But now I have, succulent, genius, delectable prose that again finds the throbbing heart of life in such a way as to pull you from ennui and castration and back to the cosmic miracle. Thank you. 

*The End Of Everything* - *Victor Davis Hansen*
	Pretty good and interesting, mainly just the content rather than the way it is delivered plodding and repeating itself. Learn more about the progress from Ancient Greece to Rome and Carthage, to the Byzantines and Ottomans.

*The Unwomanly Face of War* - *Svetlana Alexievich*
	Incredible book. So dark and evocative, puts you directly into these people's lives and the horror and tragedy of the Eastern Front. 

*The Price of Glory: Verdun 1916* - *Alistair Horne*
	Just magisterial history, paints such a brilliantly entertaining and poignant picture of horror. Makes me think of Moloch, the war being out of man's hands and in some other darker force, fate. 

*Of Cities and Women* - *Etel Adnan*
	Beautiful essays, about Greece, Rome, Beirut, Barcelona. She writes so well and bring out such interesting ideas, read everything.

*The Hour of the Star* - *Clarice Lispector*
	Her final work, beautiful, alien, terrible. How does one create art like that? To produce something and bring something into reality that was not there. What was was just emptiness before and now there's a window rent into the aether. 

*The Lions of Al-Rassan* - *Guy Gavriel Kay*
	Turned out really well in the end although in times I thought it was a little cliched and plodding. Really well constructed and a pleasure to read, so well done in a single volume. 

*The Plains* - *Gerald Murnane*
	Very strange and evocative, the use of metaphor and symbols seems to dig into some psychic space in my brain. 
> "I can only say that I sense about each of them a quiet dedication to proving that the plains are not what many plainsmen take them for. They are not, that is, a vast theatre that adds significance to the events enacted within it. Nor are they an immense field for explorers of every kind. They are simply a convenient source of metaphors for those who know that men invent their own meanings."

*Stalingrad* - *Antony Beevor*
	Took me a long time to read but I very much enjoyed it. I like Antony Beevor but he is more plodding and comprehensive than Alistair Horne. The strange and huge forces clashing over such long distances and time periods with men being ground to nothing between. Need a map often to follow what is happening with troop movements. 

*Hadji Murad* - *Leo Tolstoy*
	Again, so good. It paints such a sympathetic portrait of this Dagestani rebel, and gives so much depth to everyone in the story. I'm shocked when Murad's head is presented. It's a perfectly self-contained novel that encompasses so much of humanity and that region and that war. 

*The Cossacks* - *Leo Tolstoy*
	Vibrant, emotional, makes one dream of a life as unadorned and spare as that of the Cossacks and of old. You can tell that Tolstoy has such strong feelings about these places and these people and he looks at them with incredible sensitivity. It's beautiful.